# 1) Branching out the Java-Python bridge to its own project
[Pycro-Manager](https://pycro-manager.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is a python library for controlling microscopes via the [Micro-Manager]([url](https://micro-manager.org/)) project. Part of its power is that enables scripting and control of Micro-Manager through python/numpy (More information can be found in the [journal article](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41592-021-01087-6.epdf?sharing_token=Gv-238qo-LjtqgrjioprrtRgN0jAjWel9jnR3ZoTv0P8gFG4pWwoNXjeevz5mk7KbyKAMA3KitdxsL5AIvhs7iUW-3242-um-ahV6UQKRSlL6S5F-D4CfJXQdRJA3SvP22PlR6_NZuOrvcuRAQCQEbz5OKKXNtf1J8MjfdTHg2Y%3D). In order to make this work The Java code in Micro-Manager and the Python code in Pycro-Manager needed a bridge for communication and the exchange of data. Though there were several existing packages for controlling Java through Python, their performance limitations made them impractical (as described [here](https://github.com/micro-manager/pycro-manager/issues/14). As a result, a socket-based communication library using zeroMQ was developed from scratch in order to allow Java code to be called from python. 

This Java-Python bridge library would likely be useful in a wide array of applications. However, it is currently buried as internal component of Pycro-Manager. This project would consist of breaking it own into a standalone library so that the larger open source and scientific computing community could make use of it. It would provide the opportunity to learn about all parts of a complex open source project: test-writing, continuous integration, writing documentation, as well as an opportunity to learn in depth the internals of Python and Java, and how to synchronize executio over a network.

# 2) The Napari Frontend of Pycro-Manager
[Napari](https://napari.org/stable/) is a multidimensional image viewer written in python. It is rapidly gaining popularity due to its ease with which it enables scientific imaging data to be visualized and interacted with. Pycro-Manager currently provides a scripting interface for image acquistion, which currently uses a minimal image viewer written in Java. This project would consist of building out a more fully featured image viewer in napari for use with micro-manager. It would provide opportunities to learn about path, user interface design, and microscope control, as well as to interact with the open source microscopy comunity to solicit user feedback.
